>> Brian Holt: What are containers?
I said this before, but I think they
are more simple than you think they are.
If you thought that there was one
super feature called container,
you're incorrect.
It's actually just kind of three features
kind of duct taped together that someone
eventually looked at and said,
that's kind of a container, right?
And then the name stuck and
that's what they are now, right?
It is a Linux jail is what they used
to call them, but now they're called,
a change route or, a jailed process,
right, that's the first thing.
There's namespaces and then there's C
groups, which stands for control groups.
Those three things used together and
nothing else is a container,
which kind of just like melted my mind.
Someone just like, hey,
if I put these three things together,
all of a sudden I have this process that's
contained and can't bust out, right?
That's really all that this is.
So we're gonna do that piece by piece.
We are going to assemble
a container by jailing a process,
like and sharing its resources and
then adding it to a C group.
And then at the end of that we
will have a handcrafted artisan,
made with organic processes container.
You would never do this by yourself,
right?
Why would you ever use anything
besides like docker or container or
something like that?
But I think it's fun, I think it's cool.
And I thought it was cool so
I'm gonna make you do it, if you
just heard a bunch of Linuxy terminology
and that you didn't really get.
There is a course that I think I'm pretty
proud of, we can take this six and
a half light flighty hours of talking
about Linux and the Command-Line.
But I guarantee you I think everyone would
pull something out of it there's a bunch
of cool stuff in here, it's a cool course.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
why do we need containers?
Well, back in the ancient olden days,
which I am old enough
to vaguely remember, but
not much older than that.
We had servers in our offices
that the crypt keepers of
the sysadmins would go in there and
they would manage, right?
And they were physical servers on a rack,
on premises inside of your computer or
inside of your office,
or some sort of like Network Operation
Center or something like that.
Called this bare metal, right?
Cuz your code is literally executing on
a server that you could probably walk over
in touch, I have worked in
companies where that was the case.
But let's talk about like some things you
have to worry about not only have to worry
about the code that you wrote,
you have to worry about the operating
system that's running there.
You have to worry about
the hardware that's running on,
you have to worry about those parts
wearing out, or becoming outdated.
Or a bunch of stuff like that, you have to
worry about who can access like you have
to worry about like physical security
of who can access your servers.
You have to worry about
the temperature in there.
You have to worry about the power
that's being served out of there.
As you can see, there's a lot of
stuff here that me as a developer,
I don't wanna do that, right?
And I don't really wanna
hire someone to do that, and
I don't wanna have to own real
estate to house my servers, right?
If I'm just working at a coffee
shop in San Francisco somewhere,
I just wanna write my code and
then put it somewhere.
So bare metal makes the sense if
you are a massive corporation,
you're Microsoft sized, it makes
sense that that economy's at scale to
have a fleet of people managing a fleet
of servers and all those kinda things.
For much of us, it's not practical or
even plausible for
us to be able to handle
these kinda things.
What's the next step up here?
We have what are called virtual machines.
So all sudden we have these servers,
and rather than having to get a new
server every single time that we
need to launch a new application.
We can basically take our server and
subdivide it into smaller machines.
We'll call this a virtual machine, right?
Cuz it's not a physical machine, it's a
logical virtual machine where you're just
kinda saying, this server now has two
virtual servers running on it, right?
Or virtual machines, or VMs,
as everyone tends to call them.
This was amazing when these technology
kinda started coming around,
because all sudden you didn't have
to have a physical, new server for
everything that you wanted to
separate from each other, right?
You either had to have trust that,
if I'm running two servers on this so
that one's not gonna mess with the other.
Now we have VMs where they're actually
physically separated from each other.
What's hard about this is you still have
to manage, the operating system, keeping
all the drivers up to date, all the
security patching, all that kinda stuff.
It's still kind of a pain in the butt,
right?
But it's at least one that a software
developer can manage themselves as
long as, the servers are still somewhere
that they exist you don't have to actually
physically order a new server anymore.
Now this we could actually
put code on there that,
it was untrusted next to each other.
So, a good example of this is like
let's say, Coke and Pepsi have an app
running on the same server that
governs all their soda making, right?
If you're just on the same physical
server, Coke could just connect to it and
then pull Pepsi's recipe or
vice versa, right?
There' no trust there, or rather there's
infinite trust there, and you're just
hoping that the other person doesn't just
start poking around your files, right?
As you can see, kind of a non-starter,
that's where VMs are really nice.
Is that VMs allow you to say,
these are now separated,
this file system cannot
access this file system.
>> Brian Holt: More nefariously, they
could say well, I know I'm on the same
server as my competitor, I'm going to
intentionally bring down the server so
that they can't serve their traffic,
right?
So that's another thing that could
happen here, and much more likely,
is a software developer at one of these
places could accidentally ship a bug
that brings down the server.
And you don't wanna bring down everybody's
server that's on the same server.
So that's where VMs are super helpful,
this, this is your machine,
you can crash it,
you can burn it, we don't care.
You're paying for it, whatever.
So, this is where VMs
have become more useful.
They're individual instances
of an operating system that
allows you to create
separation on a server.
>> Brian Holt: So this comes at
the cost of some performance, right?
As you may imagine, if I have 17 copies
of Debian running on one computer,
I have to pay the cost of
running Debian 17 times.
It's not so high, I mean, Debian's
a pretty efficient operating system,
but it's not nothing, right?
You are just kind of burning resources for
the sake of separation,
it's not free, right?
>> Brian Holt: But generally,
these days we have enough computing power
where that much overhead is probably okay.
Cuz most of it if you're
running training LLMs, yeah,
you're burning an entire country's
worth of energy to create LLMs.
It's okay that you have a couple of
copies of Debian running, right?
So you have to kinda keep in mind
the order of magnitude there.
So let's come to now public cloud.
We have VMs,
I don't wanna run my own server farm.
Now comes AWS, Microsoft Azure,
Google Cloud, Oracle Cloud,
Alibaba, things of the top
five off the top of my head.
Now I can create a VM in the cloud.
I can just like reach out to Amazon say
hey, give me another easy to instance.
And now I can deploy to this
virtual machine somewhere.
And they're gonna handle
all the infrastructure,
all of the management plane,
all that kinda stuff.
So I'm just kinda left to manage,
mostly operating and driver stuff.
If I spin up a new instance,
they'll probably give me
the latest secure version.
So some of that's not necessarily true.
But it's now removed the need for
me to actually have physical
assets somewhere, right?
I can just rent them from somewhere
at a pretty strong premium, right?
If you're willing to run your own cloud,
it's probably, I mean, I don't know,
I'm guessing like 50% cheaper.
You no longer have to have
your own data center, right?
You can actually just rely on Amazon
to have your data center for you.
And even at, a 50% markup, it's probably
a pretty acceptable trade-off, right?
Because that means you don't have to
buy and you don't have to hire and
there's a bunch of stuff
you don't have to do.
It's a good thing to pay them to do
that until you have a certain size.
And even companies today like Stripe,
where I used to work, still 100% on AWS.
They have nothing of their own,
which I think even though they're a $100
billion company,
still makes a lot of sense for them.
There's a lot of tools that help you here.
You have things like Terraform, Chef,
Puppet, Salt, cloud formation, right,
all those kinda things that kind of help
you just spin up and spin down servers.
At the end of the day, everything
we're still talking about, though,
is still virtual machines, right?
It's still an entire copy of
the operating system running.
So we're still paying the cost of
running the entire operating system,
because it is still a virtual machine.
It's still an entire copy
of the operating system.
>> Brian Holt: And there's nothing here
that helps you with orchestration,
which is how do all my apps,
connect to each other or scaling, right?
I guess there are things
like scaling sets.
They can say, if this server gets
too busy, add another server.
There's some of that's kind of
managed plan that you can use.
But we're gonna get into containers,
that's the point of containers
is they're able to do that.
So it's actually just talking about
containers, you're running a copy of
something but you're not actually
running the full copy of it.
And you're just running that
directly on a container daemon, but
you don't have the whole cost of
writing the entire virtual machine.
You don't have that whole cost of,
virtualizing all of your things and
allocating them all that way.
Containers are a much more lighter weight
of being able to do this with strong
security boundaries but not necessarily
as strong as a virtual machine.
So there's actually a way to run
containers as a full virtual machine if
you want to do that.
We're not gonna talk about that, but
having a full separation of a virtual
machine will be a stronger
security separation, but
99.99% of us don't care and
don't need that, right?
If you're just running an app on AWS,
a normal container will do just fine.
And most companies just do it that way.
>> Brian Holt: And they're great,
I use them all the time in my day job.
My last company used them,
my previous company used them before then.
My current company, we're adopting
containers and Kubernetes and
all this kinda thing.
I think it's fair to say it's one of
the most revolutionary infrastructure,
innovations in the past 10, 15 years.
And they're just getting more important,
so
it's awesome that you're here talking
with me about this kinda stuff.